Updates to comparisons (#7452)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-amplitude.mdx

---
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Amplitude"
date: 2024-01-08
author: ["andy-vandervell"]
rootpage: /blog
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-vs-amplitude/posthog-vs-amplitude.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
  - Comparisons
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonHeader } from 'components/ComparisonTable/header'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

Want to know how PostHog and Amplitude compare? If you remember nothing else, remember these two things:

1. **Amplitude** is a product analytics tool built for non-technical users and data analysts.

> 2. **PostHog** is a comprehensive, all-in-one platform built for engineers that replaces Amplitude _and_ numerous other tools.

Reviewer: Little bit cleaner 

```suggestion
2. **PostHog** is an all-in-one platform built for engineers that replaces Amplitude _and_ numerous other tools.
```

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. We're everything you need in one

> PostHog replaces multiple tools in your data stack. You could run Amplitude for analytics, [LaunchDarkly](/blog/posthog-vs-launchdarkly) for feature flags, Hotjar for session recording, [Statsig](/blog/posthog-vs-statsig) for A/B testing, or you could just use PostHog for everything. One platform, one bill: seamless integration.

Reviewer 2: I realize you are doing this for the link, but I don't think anyone would run LaunchDarkly and Statsig in the same stack.

> PostHog replaces multiple tools in your data stack. You could run Amplitude for analytics, [LaunchDarkly](/blog/posthog-vs-launchdarkly) for feature flags, Hotjar for session recording, [Statsig](/blog/posthog-vs-statsig) for A/B testing, or you could just use PostHog for everything. One platform, one bill: seamless integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostHog replaces multiple tools in your data stack. You could run Amplitude for analytics, [LaunchDarkly](/blog/posthog-vs-launchdarkly) for feature flags, [Hotjar](/blog/posthog-vs-hotjar) for session recording, [Statsig](/blog/posthog-vs-statsig) for A/B testing, or you could just use PostHog for everything. One platform, one bill, and seamless integration.
```

> ### 2. It's built for engineers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. We're built for engineers
```

> PostHog autocaptures data, so you don't need to waste energy instrumenting basic events. You can choose between light and dark mode themes. Features like our custom SQL query builder, keyboard shortcuts, and command palette, cater to power users. You can setup PostHog and start paying us without ever speaking to a sales rep, though our [customer success team](/contact-sales) is always available to answer your questions.

Author: ```suggestion
We support all popular (and some unpopular) SDKs, have extensively documented APIs, and a powerful SQL query builder, so you can analyze data how you want. Because we're all-in-one, our JavaScript snippet is all you need to implement multiple integrated tools. You can choose between US and EU data hosting. We don't publish white papers because they're lame.
```

Thoughts on this instead @ivanagas @Lior539?

Reviewer: I like the first half, but not the second. Feels like it takes you in a different direction. Here's my suggestion (I've also added more hyperlinks)

```suggestion
We support all popular (and some unpopular) [SDKs](/docs/libraries), have [extensively documented APIs](/docs/api), and a [powerful SQL query builder](/docs/hogql), so you can analyze data how you want. 

We also offer tools that enable you to [safely test in production](/product-engineers/testing-in-production), [phased rollouts](/tutorials/phased-rollout), links to other tutorials
```

Author: A bit too long, but I'll work with it.

> PostHog autocaptures data, so you don't need to waste energy instrumenting basic events. You can choose between light and dark mode themes. Features like our custom SQL query builder, keyboard shortcuts, and command palette, cater to power users. You can setup PostHog and start paying us without ever speaking to a sales rep, though our [customer success team](/contact-sales) is always available to answer your questions.

Reviewer 2: Autocapture and dark mode seems like something non-technical people would appreciate, rather than engineers.

Engineers would care more about SDKs, simple installation for multiple integrated tools, API, HogQL, EU hosting.

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Experiments" description="Run tests on new features, optimize conversion funnels" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="User surveys" description="Collect and analyze feedback, run NPS and PMF surveys " />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Beta" column2={true} feature="Customer data platform" description="Sync data with third-party tools" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Beta" column2={false} feature="Data warehouse" description="A single source for all your important data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click in your app or website" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Notebooks" description="Ad-hoc analysis and collaboration" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Dark mode" description="Choose between light and dark UI" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Build your own apps and contribute code" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Product analytics

There are two key differences here:

> 1. PostHog supports autocapture, which makes it much fast to implement as you don't to manually instrument every event. Don't want autocapture? Just [turn it off](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) – we offer the best of both worlds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. PostHog supports autocapture, which makes it much faster to implement as you don't to manually instrument every event. Don't want autocapture? Just [turn it off](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) and use one of our SDKs – we offer the best of both worlds.
```

Reviewer: Building on Ian's suggestion:

```suggestion
1. PostHog supports autocapture, which makes it much faster to implement if you don't want to manually instrument every event. Don't want autocapture? Just [turn it off](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) and use one of our SDKs – we offer the best of both worlds.```

> 2. PostHog has a [SQL-based query builder](/docs/hogql) for power users, which enables you to generate custom data analyses using PostHog event data. In future, our query builder will let you analyze data as you would in a Business Intelligence tool, like Metabase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. PostHog has a [SQL-based query builder](/docs/hogql) for power users, which enables you to generate custom data analyses using PostHog event data. In future, our query builder will let you analyze data as you would in a business intelligence tool, like Metabase.
```
The last sentence makes it unclear that we are doing this in our own product, rather than exporting to metabase.

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Amplitude">
  <ComparisonRow column1="1 million events, unlimited insights" column2="100k monthly tracked users, 10 saved insights" feature="Free usage" description="How much free usage do you get each month?" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Autocapture" description="Capture events without manual logging" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Query editor" description="Write your own queries in SQL" />

Reviewer 2: How should we talk about this?

https://help.amplitude.com/hc/en-us/articles/115001902492-Amplitude-SQL-Getting-started-with-Query

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Dashboards" description="Combine insights into shareable dashboards" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Graphs and trends" description="Build custom insights and visualizations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Funnels" description="Track users through a sequence of events" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Retention" description="Visualize which users stay, for how long" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="User paths" description="Track user flows and where they drop-off" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Cohorts" description="Combine users based on properties and events for group analysis" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Group analytics" description="Track metrics at a company and account level" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Lifecycle analysis" description="Understand who is dormant, churning, and thriving" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Stickiness insights" description="See how many times users perform an event in a period of time." />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Stickiness" description="Find out what events keep users coming back." />
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Custom formulas" description="Use formulas to calculate unique insights" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Feature flags

> Feature flags make it easy to roll out features to specific users or groups, and [safely test in production](/product-engineers/testing-in-production). Our feature flags are also tightly integrated with other features, so you can target session replays, surveys and more using existing feature flags. See our guide on the [benefits of feature flags](/product-engineers/feature-flag-benefits-use-cases) for more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Feature flags make it easy to roll out features to specific users or groups, and [safely test in production](/product-engineers/testing-in-production). Our feature flags are also tightly integrated with other features, so you can target session replays, surveys, and more using existing feature flags. See our guide on the [benefits of feature flags](/product-engineers/feature-flag-benefits-use-cases) for more.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Multivariate flags" description="Flags with multiple customizable values" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Payloads" description="Flags with string, number, or JSON payloads" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Local evaluation" description="Store flag definitions locally" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Percentage rollouts" description="Target percentages of a group" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Custom targeting" description="Target users based on user properties, custom contexts" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Beta" column2={false} feature="Scheduling" description="Schedule flags to turn on or off" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Partial" column2={false} feature="Environments" description="Manage flags for dev, stage, prod" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Bootstrapping" description="Flags available on frontend application load" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Early access" description="Manage betas, test features" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Experimentation

> PostHog's testing features are free when you input a card and you get a generous 1 million API requests for free _every_ month. Amplitude's A/B testing isn't available on any self-serve plan and the price isn't disclosed. You must contact its sales team to use it.

Reviewer: Dont think we need to mention inputing a credit card again

```suggestion
PostHog's offers a generous free 1 million A/B testing events. Amplitude's A/B testing isn't available on any self-serve plan and the price isn't disclosed. You must contact its sales team to use it.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Custom goals" description="Customize metrics that a test tracks" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Secondary metrics" description="Monitor impact on unrelated metrics" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Split testing" description="Split participants into groups" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Multivariate (A/B/n) testing" description="Test multiple variants of a change" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Statistical significance" description="Automatically checks for statistical significance" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Recommended run time" description="Calculates the recommended run time and sample size" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Partial" column2={true} feature="Holdout testing" description="Withhold multiple features to measure cumulative impact" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Bayesian" column2="Sequential" feature="Statistics engine" description="How the results of an experiment are calculated" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Session replay

> Replays enable you watch how users experience your app, diagnose issues, improve support, and understand real user behavior in a way raw data can't. They are _not_ video recordings of users. We reconstruct sessions by capturing Document Object Model (DOM) mutations. All private and personal data is masked. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replays enable you watch how users experience your app, diagnose issues, improve support, and understand real user behavior in a way raw data can't. They are _not_ video recordings of users. We reconstruct sessions by capturing Document Object Model (DOM) mutations. You have complete control over what is captured and all private and personal data is masked. 
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Performance monitoring" description="Track network events within a session" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Privacy masking" description="Censor personal information from playback" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Conditional recording" description="Only capture the sessions you want" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="DOM explorer" description="Explore an interactive snapshot of replays" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Export recordings" description="Save important recordings offline" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Minimum duration" description="Only record sessions longer than the minimum duration" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Sample recorded sessions" description="Restrict the percentage of sessions that will be recorded" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Record via feature flag" description="Only record sessions for users that have the flag enabled" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Surveys

> Surveys are great for tracking customer satisfaction scores like Net Promoter Score (NPS), customer satisfaction (CSAT), and customer effort score (CES). We include survey templates for all these and more – read our [guide comparing NPS, CSAT and CES](/product-engineers/nps-vs-csat-vs-ces) to see which one you should use and when.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Surveys are great for tracking customer satisfaction scores like Net Promoter Score (NPS), customer satisfaction (CSAT), and customer effort score (CES). We include [survey templates](/templates?filter=type&value=survey) for all these and more helping you get started fast. Read our [guide comparing NPS, CSAT and CES](/product-engineers/nps-vs-csat-vs-ces) to see which one you should use and when.
```

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Amplitude">

>   <ComparisonRow column1="250" column2={false} feature="Free usage" description="How much free usage do you get each month?" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <ComparisonRow column1="250" column2="n/a" feature="Free usage" description="How much free usage do you get each month?" />
```

   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Sentry" description="Connect to Sentry data" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Zendesk" description="Two-way integration for customer support" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Slack" description="Alerts for Slack" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Microsoft Teams" description="Alerts for Microsoft Teams" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Community integrations" description="Build your own integration" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Google Ads" description="Import ROI data from Google Ads" />   
</ComparisonTable>

### Pricing

**PostHog** charges for actual usage – i.e. product analytics events, feature flag API requests, and so on. No credit card is required to signup and use PostHog, but entering a credit card unlocks almost all features and **you'll pay nothing** if you stay within our **generous free tier** limits:

|                       | **Free usage per month** 
|-----------------------|--------------------------
| **Product analytics** | 1 million events        

> | **Session replay**    | 5,000 recordings         

Reviewer 2: might have to update mentions of this on soon.

Author: This is the updated figure, afaik. Used to be 15k

| **Feature flags**     | 1 million API requests
| **A/B testing**       | 1 million API requests  
| **Surveys**           | 250 responses            

> **Amplitude** charges based on monthly tracked users (MTUs). The cost of add owns, such as A/B testing (not available on self-serve plans), group analytics, and unlimited cohorts (self-serve plans are limited to five), isn't disclosed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Amplitude** charges based on monthly tracked users (MTUs). The cost of add ons, such as A/B testing (not available on self-serve plans), group analytics, and unlimited cohorts (self-serve plans are limited to five) isn't disclosed.
```

Our free tiers are for life, which means you'll always get your first 1 million events (or 5,000 replays and so on) for free every month, no matter how many you end up using.

Amplitude offers a free Starter plan, but it lacks many important features:

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Amplitude">
   <ComparisonRow column1="1 million events" column2="50k tracked users" feature="Free usage" description="Free tier usage each month" />
   <ComparisonRow column1="Users" column2="Unlimited" feature="Unlimited" description="Active accounts" />

>    <ComparisonRow column1="Unlimited" column2="10 only" feature="Saved insights" description="Number of you charts you can create" />   

Reviewer 2: TIL, bit crazy of them tbh

   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Custom events" description="Create custom tracking events" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Formulas" description="Create custom insights using formulas" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Feature flags" description="Release and control features" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="A/B testing" description="Run tests on users and groups" />

> </ComparisonTable>

Reviewer 2: Should we add billing limits to this table? Not sure if Amplitude has it.

>    <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="A/B testing" description="Run tests on users and groups" />

Author: ```suggestion
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="A/B testing" description="Run tests on users and groups" />
   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Billing limits" description="Set limits to avoid surprise bills" />
```

> We charge progressively less per event, replay, API request the more you use – e.g. we charge $0.000100 per event up to 2 million events, but all events after 10 million a month only cost 

Reviewer 2: Mention discounts for startups, super high volumes?

> We charge progressively less per event, replay, API request the more you use – e.g. we charge $0.000100 per event up to 2 million events, but all events after 10 million a month only cost 
> $0.000025, 75% less per event.

Author: ```suggestion
We charge progressively less per event, replay, API request the more you use – e.g. we charge $0.000100 per event up to 2 million events, but all events after 10 million a month only cost $0.000025, 75% less.

Eligible companies can also get $50,000 in credit in our [PostHog for Startups program](/startups). 
```

### Security and compliance

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Amplitude">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="User privacy options" description="Anonymize users, drop personal data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="History, audit logs" description="Manage and view flag edits and related users" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="GDPR-ready" description="Can be compliant with GDPR" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="HIPAA-ready" description="Can be compliant with HIPAA" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="SOC 2" description="SOC 2 security certification" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="2FA" description="Enforce login with two-factor authentication" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Enterprise" column2="Enterprise" feature="SAML/SSO" description="Use SAML or single sign-on authentication" />
</ComparisonTable>

## FAQ

### Can PostHog also replace Google Analytics?

> Yes. PostHog can replace Google Analytics for many use cases – [our marketing team uses PostHog](/blog/posthog-marketing), for example. You can integrate PostHog into your website using Google Tag Manager. See our comparison of [PostHog and Google Analytics 4](/blog/posthog-vs-ga4) and [An intro to PostHog for Google Analytics users](/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog) for more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes. PostHog can replace Google Analytics for many use cases – [our marketing team uses PostHog](/blog/posthog-marketing), for example. You can integrate PostHog into your website using [Google Tag Manager](/docs/libraries/google-tag-manager). See our comparison of [PostHog and Google Analytics 4](/blog/posthog-vs-ga4) and [an intro to PostHog for Google Analytics users](/blog/google-analytics-to-posthog) for more.
```

Reviewer 2: Should we mention web analytics here?

### Is PostHog easy to deploy?

> Yes. Just paste our JS snippet within the `<head>` tags your product or website and you're good to go in just a few minutes. See our [installation documentation](/docs/getting-started/install) for more options. We support dozens of client-side and server-side SDKs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes. Just paste our web snippet within the `<head>` tags your product or website and you're good to go in just a few minutes. This works for apps, blogs, scripts, no-code site builders, and more. See our [installation documentation](/docs/getting-started/install) for more options. We support dozens of client-side and server-side SDKs.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Build your own apps and contribute code" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Product analytics

There are two key differences here:

1. PostHog supports autocapture, which makes it much faster to implement if you don't want to manually instrument every event. Don't want autocapture? Just [turn it off](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) and use one of our SDKs – we offer the best of both worlds.

2. PostHog has a [SQL-based query builder](/docs/hogql) for power users, which enables you to generate custom data analyses using PostHog event data. In future, our query builder will let you analyze data as you would in a business intelligence tool, like Metabase, inside PostHog.

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Amplitude">
  <ComparisonRow column1="1 million events, unlimited insights" column2="100k monthly tracked users, 10 saved insights" feature="Free usage" description="How much free usage do you get each month?" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Autocapture" description="Capture events without manual logging" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Query editor" description="Write your own queries in SQL" />

Author: ```suggestion
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2="Add on" feature="Query editor" description="Write your own queries in SQL" />
```
